README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/img/logo.png" alt="Keycloak Smile CDR Sandbox" width="660px">
</p>


# 👋 Welcome
This repo is a sandbox for testing out OIDC authentication using Keycloak
with the Smile CDR FHIR server. It also makes use of Smile CDR's methods for
defining authorization policies to control access to data.

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/img/sequence-diagram.png" alt="basic-architecture" width="660px">
</p>

# 👩‍💻 Quickstart

The quickstart script bootstraps the development environment, seeds the FHIR server
with data, and sets up Keycloak with clients that have been assigned FHIR 
permissions. Run this script if you want to get up and running quickly and see
how everything works.

## Setup
```shell
./bin/quickstart.sh --delete-volumes
```

If everything ran correctly, you should see this in your shell:

```shell
✅ --- Quickstart setup complete! ---
```

## Get Access Token 
Let's try getting an access token from Keycloak for the `ingest-study-client`
client. 

```shell
curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{"client_id": "ingest-study-client","client_secret": "lkhZRex5E58JCjcnIKkLcT4t1Q9dw5OW"}' \
http://localhost:8081/keycloak-proxy/token
```

## Inspect Token
You should get back a response that looks like this (access token removed 
for brevity):
```json
{
  "access_token": <access_token>,
  "decoded_token": {
    "acr": "1",
    "allowed-origins": [
      "/*"
    ],
    "azp": "ingest-study-client",
    "clientAddress": "192.168.176.4",
    "clientHost": "192.168.176.4",
    "clientId": "ingest-study-client",
    "email_verified": false,
    "exp": 1681241247,
    "fhir_consent_grants": [
      "fhir-role-fhir-client-superuser",
      "fhir-consent-read-study|SD-0",
      "fhir-consent-delete-study|SD-0",
      "fhir-consent-write-study|SD-0"
    ],
    "fhir_roles": [
      "fhir-role-fhir-client-superuser"
    ],
    "iat": 1681237647,
    "iss": "http://keycloak:8080/realms/fhir-dev",
    "jti": "40b44b13-9b07-45c1-9432-ee1c17ebdab2",
    "preferred_username": "service-account-ingest-study-client",
    "scope": "fhir profile email",
    "sub": "7a25c1e2-5403-476b-ab13-00acc1693a75",
    "typ": "Bearer"
  },
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "not-before-policy": 0,
  "refresh_expires_in": 0,
  "scope": "fhir profile email",
  "token_type": "Bearer"
}

```
The actual base64 encoded access token needed to send requests to the 
FHIR server will be in `access_token` but you can see the decoded version of 
it in `decoded_token`. In the decoded version you can see the FHIR permissions 
this client has.

## View Authorized Data
Let's use the access token to view the FHIR data we are authorized to see:

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <put access token here>'\ 
http://localhost:4000/Patient
```

You should get back only Patients that are tagged with study SD-0 since 
this client only has access to study SD-0 data

```json
{
  "resourceType": "Bundle",
  "id": "89a5316b-5b3e-4d72-870d-b8b6fbde3a0b",
  "meta": {
    "lastUpdated": "2023-04-11T18:43:50.495+00:00"
  },
  "type": "searchset",
  "link": [
    {
      "relation": "self",
      "url": "http://localhost:8000/Patient"
    }
  ],
  "entry": [
    {
      "fullUrl": "http://localhost:8000/Patient/PT-0-0",
      "resource": {
        "resourceType": "Patient",
        "id": "PT-0-0",
        "meta": {
          "versionId": "1",
          "lastUpdated": "2023-04-11T16:27:11.482+00:00",
          "source": "#0CcOEphD4HWnDalI",
          "tag": [
            {
              "system": "urn:study_id",
              "code": "SD-0",
              "display": "SD-0",
              "userSelected": false
            }
          ]
        },
        "identifier": [
          {
            "use": "official",
            "system": "https://app.dewrangle.com/fhir",
            "value": "PT-0-0"
          }
        ],
        "gender": "male"
      },
      "search": {
        "mode": "match"
      }
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

## View Unauthorized Data
Let's try to view datal we are NOT authorized to see (a Patient tagged 
with study SD-1):

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <put access token here>'\ 
http://localhost:4000/Patient/PT-1-0
```

You should get back a response that says the Patient was not found 

```json
{
  "resourceType": "OperationOutcome",
  "issue": [
    {
      "severity": "error",
      "code": "processing",
      "diagnostics": "HAPI-1995: Resource Patient/PT-1-0 is not known"
    }
  ]
}
```

# 👩‍💻 Development

Commit message:

:wrench: Use default smilecdr ports

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/img/logo.png" alt="Keycloak Smile CDR Sandbox" width="660px">
</p>


# 👋 Welcome
This repo is a sandbox for testing out OIDC authentication using Keycloak
with the Smile CDR FHIR server. It also makes use of Smile CDR's methods for
defining authorization policies to control access to data.

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/img/sequence-diagram.png" alt="basic-architecture" width="660px">
</p>

# 👩‍💻 Quickstart

The quickstart script bootstraps the development environment, seeds the FHIR server
with data, and sets up Keycloak with clients that have been assigned FHIR 
permissions. Run this script if you want to get up and running quickly and see
how everything works.

## Setup
```shell
./bin/quickstart.sh --delete-volumes
```

If everything ran correctly, you should see this in your shell:

```shell
✅ --- Quickstart setup complete! ---
```

## Get Access Token 
Let's try getting an access token from Keycloak for the `ingest-study-client`
client. 

```shell
curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{"client_id": "ingest-study-client","client_secret": "lkhZRex5E58JCjcnIKkLcT4t1Q9dw5OW"}' \
http://localhost:8081/keycloak-proxy/token
```

## Inspect Token
You should get back a response that looks like this (access token removed 
for brevity):
```json
{
  "access_token": <access_token>,
  "decoded_token": {
    "acr": "1",
    "allowed-origins": [
      "/*"
    ],
    "azp": "ingest-study-client",
    "clientAddress": "192.168.176.4",
    "clientHost": "192.168.176.4",
    "clientId": "ingest-study-client",
    "email_verified": false,
    "exp": 1681241247,
    "fhir_consent_grants": [
      "fhir-role-fhir-client-superuser",
      "fhir-consent-read-study|SD-0",
      "fhir-consent-delete-study|SD-0",
      "fhir-consent-write-study|SD-0"
    ],
    "fhir_roles": [
      "fhir-role-fhir-client-superuser"
    ],
    "iat": 1681237647,
    "iss": "http://keycloak:8080/realms/fhir-dev",
    "jti": "40b44b13-9b07-45c1-9432-ee1c17ebdab2",
    "preferred_username": "service-account-ingest-study-client",
    "scope": "fhir profile email",
    "sub": "7a25c1e2-5403-476b-ab13-00acc1693a75",
    "typ": "Bearer"
  },
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "not-before-policy": 0,
  "refresh_expires_in": 0,
  "scope": "fhir profile email",
  "token_type": "Bearer"
}

```
The actual base64 encoded access token needed to send requests to the 
FHIR server will be in `access_token` but you can see the decoded version of 
it in `decoded_token`. In the decoded version you can see the FHIR permissions 
this client has.

## View Authorized Data
Let's use the access token to view the FHIR data we are authorized to see:

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <put access token here>'\ 
http://localhost:8000/Patient
```

You should get back only Patients that are tagged with study SD-0 since 
this client only has access to study SD-0 data

```json
{
  "resourceType": "Bundle",
  "id": "89a5316b-5b3e-4d72-870d-b8b6fbde3a0b",
  "meta": {
    "lastUpdated": "2023-04-11T18:43:50.495+00:00"
  },
  "type": "searchset",
  "link": [
    {
      "relation": "self",
      "url": "http://localhost:8000/Patient"
    }
  ],
  "entry": [
    {
      "fullUrl": "http://localhost:8000/Patient/PT-0-0",
      "resource": {
        "resourceType": "Patient",
        "id": "PT-0-0",
        "meta": {
          "versionId": "1",
          "lastUpdated": "2023-04-11T16:27:11.482+00:00",
          "source": "#0CcOEphD4HWnDalI",
          "tag": [
            {
              "system": "urn:study_id",
              "code": "SD-0",
              "display": "SD-0",
              "userSelected": false
            }
          ]
        },
        "identifier": [
          {
            "use": "official",
            "system": "https://app.dewrangle.com/fhir",
            "value": "PT-0-0"
          }
        ],
        "gender": "male"
      },
      "search": {
        "mode": "match"
      }
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

## View Unauthorized Data
Let's try to view datal we are NOT authorized to see (a Patient tagged 
with study SD-1):

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <put access token here>'\ 
http://localhost:8000/Patient/PT-1-0
```

You should get back a response that says the Patient was not found 

```json
{
  "resourceType": "OperationOutcome",
  "issue": [
    {
      "severity": "error",
      "code": "processing",
      "diagnostics": "HAPI-1995: Resource Patient/PT-1-0 is not known"
    }
  ]
}
```

# 👩‍💻 Development

## Docs

## Smile CDR
All server settings are located in `smilecdr/settings`

```
smilecdr
`-- settings
    |-- auth.js
    |-- consent.js
    |-- master.properties
    |-- oidc-servers.json
    |-- setenv
    |-- system-users.json
    `-- users.json
```

### auth.js

The post authentication callback function that Smile CDR calls once the user 
has been authenticated. This function is responsible for parsing the 
access token (in the case of OIDC) or user object (in the case of basic auth)

## Authentication
